Quick tour (#5145)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/quicktour.rst

Quick tour
==========

Let's have a quick look at the 🤗 Transformers library features. The library downloads pretrained models for
Natural Language Understanding (NLU), such as analyzing the sentiment of a text, and Natural Language Generation (NLG),
sych as completing a prompt with new text or translating in another language.

First we will see how to easily leverage the pipeline API to quickly use those pretrained models at inference. Then, we
will dig a little bit more and see how the library gives you access to those models and helps you preprocess your data.

.. note::

    All code examples presented in the documentation have a switch on the top left for Pytorch versus TensorFlow. If
    not, the code is expected to work for both backends without any change needed.

Getting started on a task with a pipeline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The easiest way to use a pretrained model on a given task is to use :func:`~transformers.pipeline`. 🤗 Transformers

Author: If you mean the task summary, it's linked just below (this will link to the pipeline doc already).

> The easiest way to use a pretrained model on a given task is to use :func:`~transformers.pipeline`. 🤗 Transformers

Reviewer: I'm not sure it links to the pipeline doc, maybe good to double check

> The easiest way to use a pretrained model on a given task is to use :func:`~transformers.pipeline`. 🤗 Transformers

Author: Eh, that's because the pipeline function is not included in the doc... Will fix.

> The easiest way to use a pretrained model on a given task is to use :func:`~transformers.pipeline`. 🤗 Transformers

Author: Fixed now

returning a list of dictionaries like this one:

::

    [{'label': 'POSITIVE', 'score': 0.999799370765686},
     {'label': 'NEGATIVE', 'score': 0.5308589935302734}]

You can see the second sentence has been classified as negative (it needs to be positive or negative) but its score is
fairly neutral.

By default, the model downloaded for this pipeline is called "distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english". We can
look at its `model page <https://huggingface.co/distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english>`__ to get more
information about it. It uses the :doc:`DistilBERT architecture </model_doc/distilbert>` and has been fine-tuned on a
dataset called SST-2 for the sentiment analysis task.

Let's say we want to use another model; for instance, one that has been trained on French data. We can search through
the `model hub <https://huggingface.co/models>`__ that gathers models pretrained on a lot of data by research labs, but
also community models (usually fine-tuned versions of those big models on a specific dataset). Applying the tags
"French" and "text-classification" gives back a suggestion "nlptown/bert-base-multilingual-uncased-sentiment". Let's
see how we can use it.

> We will need two classes for this. The first is :class:`~transformers.AutoTokenizer`, which we will use to download the

Author: Oh I had missed that. The `AutoXXX` is to transition to the next part, but I can definitely add this example before as another step.

tokenizer associated to the model we picked and instantiate it. The second is
:class:`~transformers.AutoModelForSequenceClassification` (or

> :class:`~transformers.TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification` if you are using TensorFlow), which we will use to download

Author: Should I add them to the model_doc/auto file? That would be consistent with the other model pages (I'll do this in a separate PR if yes).

> :class:`~transformers.TFAutoModelForSequenceClassification` if you are using TensorFlow), which we will use to download

Reviewer 2: Agree very much!

Let's apply the SoftMax activation to get predictions.

::

    ## PYTORCH CODE
    import torch.nn.functional as F
    predictions = F.softmax(outputs[0], dim=-1)
    print(predictions)
    ## TENSORFLOW CODE
    predictions = tf.nn.softmax(outputs[0], axis=-1)
    print(predictions)

We can see we get the numbers from before:

::

    tensor([[2.0060e-04, 9.9980e-01],
            [5.3086e-01, 4.6914e-01]])

If you have labels, you can provide them to the model, it will return a tuple with the loss and the final activations.

::

    ## PYTORCH CODE
    import torch
    outputs = model(**batch, labels = torch.tensor([1, 0])
    ## TENSORFLOW CODE
    import tensorflow as tf
    outputs = model(batch, labels = tf.constant([1, 0])

Models are standard `torch.nn.Module <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/nn.html#torch.nn.Module>`__ or
`tf.keras.Model <https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/keras/Model>`__ so you can use them in your usual
training loop. 🤗 Transformers also provides a :class:`~transformers.Trainer` (or :class:`~transformers.TFTrainer` if
you are using TensorFlow) class to help with your training (taking care of things such as distributed training, mixed

> precision, etc.). See the training tutorial (coming soon) for more details.

Author: That's @joeddav tutorial in #5034

> precision, etc.). See the training tutorial (coming soon) for more details.

Reviewer 2: We should have more easy to use training tutorials, especially for seq2seq models. There are sooo many questions on github asking for T5, Bart and EncoderDecoder training. I added some sample code to the T5 code page, but I like @joeddav approach of having a unified training page where we should at least for `MaskedLM`, `CausalLM` and `Seq2Seq` models how to train in like 10 lines and on top of that how to use the trainer. 

Also at the moment it is not possible to use TFTrainer with `BertForMaskedLM`, `BertForCausalLM` since the forward function does not yet accept a `labels` parameter. I'd be happy to work with @jplu on this in a couple of days :-)

> precision, etc.). See the training tutorial (coming soon) for more details.

Reviewer 3: I will be happy to work with you on making the `TFTrainer` compliant for language modeling :)

    tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_name)

Using the tokenizer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We mentioned the tokenizer is responsible for the preprocessing of your texts. First, it will split a given text in
words (or part of words, punctuation symbols, etc.) usually called `tokens`. There are multiple rules that can govern
that process, which is why we need to instantiate the tokenizer using the name of the model, to make sure we use the
same rules as when the model was pretrained.

The second step is to convert those `tokens` into numbers, to be able to build a tensor out of them and feed them to
the model. To do this, the tokenizer has a `vocab`, which is the part we download when we instantiate it with the
:obj:`from_pretrained` method, since we need to use the same `vocab` as when the model was pretrained.

To apply these steps on a given text, we can just feed it to our tokenizer:

::

    input = tokenizer("We are very happy to show you the Transformers library.")
    print(input)

This returns a dictionary string to list of ints. It contains the `ids of the tokens <glossary.html#input-ids>`__,

> as mentioned before, but also additional arguments that will be useful to the model. Here for instance, we also have an
> `attention mask <glossary.html#attention-mask>`__ because the model will expect it:

Reviewer 4: nitpick: The `attention_mask` part here sounds a bit weird to me, as without clicking the link, I don't understand the purpose of that at all (especially since it's the first reference to the attention mask in the docs). I think something along the lines of:
```suggestion
as mentioned before, but also additional arguments that will be useful to the model. Here for instance, we also have an
`attention mask <glossary.html#attention-mask>`__ that the model will use to have a better understanding of the sequence:

```
would be better.
